TRIBHUVAN UNIVERSITY
INSTITUTE OF ENGINEERING
PULCHOWK CAMPUS
DEPARTMENT OF ELECTRONICS AND COMPUTER ENGINEERING
LETTER OF APPROVAL

The undersigned certify that they have read, and recommended to the Institute of Engineering for acceptance, this project report entitled "Personality Based Music Recommendation System" submitted by Abhishek Paudel, Brihat Ratna Bajracharya, Miran Ghimire and Nabin Bhattarai in partial fulfilment of the requirements for the Bachelor’s Degree in Computer Engineering.


Supervisor
Er. Daya Sagar Baral
Department of Electronics and Computer Engineering


Internal Examiner

External Examiner

Bibha Sthapit
Deputy Head
Department of Electronics and Computer Engineering
Institute of Engineering, Pulchowk Campus
Lalitpur, Nepal

Dibakar Raj Pant
Head
Department of Electronics and Computer Engineering
Institute of Engineering, Pulchowk Campus
Lalitpur, Nepal

DATE OF APPROVAL: 










COPYRIGHT
The author has agreed that the Library, Department of Electronics and Computer Engineering, Pulchowk Campus, Institute of Engineering may make this report freely available for inspection. Moreover, the author has agreed that permission for extensive copying of this project report for scholarly purpose may be granted by the supervisors who supervised the project work recorded herein or, in their absence, by the Head of the Department wherein the project report was done. It is understood that the recognition will be given to the author of this report and to the Department of Electronics and Computer Engineering, Pulchowk Campus, Institute of Engineering in any use of the material of this project report. Copying or publication or the other use of this report for financial gain without approval of to the Department of Electronics and Computer Engineering, Pulchowk Campus, Institute of Engineering and author’s written permission is prohibited.
Request for permission to copy or to make any other use of the material in this report in whole or in part should be addressed to:
Head
Department of Electronics and Computer Engineering
Pulchowk Campus, Institute of Engineering
Lalitpur, Kathmandu
Nepal




ABSTRACT
Nowadays, most people are busy in different social media sites like facebook. People express their views on different matters, share their memories, pictures, videos and keep in touch with their nearest and dearest via social media. This project focuses on determining the personality of a person according to the Big Five Traits and on the basis of their profile, recommends the music best suited for the person as per their personality.
The big five traits that we cover are Openness to experience,Conscientiousness, Extraversion, Agreeableness, and Neuroticism. From the dataset available in myPersonality.org, we analyse person's personality from their status, likes and posts in facebook, extra music related data and combine these information with the recommendation system to provide  music suggestion on the basis of his activity in facebook.
In the present context, internet is crowded due to excessive amount of information that not only affects time to access interested things on the internet but also makes it difficult to recognize those. In this scenario, the recommender system that solves the hazardous situation is required. Also, music has become integral part of human life which helps people to relax and enjoy some moment of life listening their favorite track. This project aims to provide a method to use the collaborative filtering engine using the personality of facebook users to provide them the kind of music they like.

Keywords: Openness to experience,Conscientiousness, Extraversion, Agreeableness, Neuroticism, Recommendation system, Collaborative filtering
